# Installation

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pre-requisites

`bavapi` requires python 3.8 or higher to run.

If you don't have python installed, you can download it from the official Python [website](https://www.python.org/downloads/) or [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/).

You will also need a Fount API bearer token to peform requests to the Fount. For instructions on how to get your own API token, see the [Authentication](authentication.md) section.

Once you have installed Python and have acquired your Fount API token, return to this page to continue.

## Dependencies

`bavapi` depends on the following excellent libraries:

- `httpx` for communication with the Fount API.
- `pandas` for processing retrieved data into tables.
- `pydantic` to validate query and filter parameters.
- `nest-asyncio` to support Jupyter notebooks.
- `tqdm` to show helpful progress bars.
- `typing-extensions` for type checking compatibility in older Python versions.

These libraries will be installed automatically when you install `bavapi`.

## Installing `bavapi`

Once you have your virtual environment activated, you can install `bavapi` with the following command:

```prompt
pip install wpp-bavapi
```

:::info Installing with conda
`bavapi` is not currently available from `conda` directly, though it should be possible to install and use it within a `conda` environment.

Use the following commands to maximize compatibility between `conda` and `pip`:

```prompt
conda install httpx, pandas, pydantic, nest-asyncio, tqdm, typing_extensions

pip install wpp-bavapi --no-deps
```

:::

### Installing from source

To install from source, clone the GitHub repository into your local machine:

```prompt
git clone https://github.com/wppbav/bavapi-sdk-python.git
```

Go into the cloned directory and install `bavapi`:

```prompt
cd bavapi-sdk-python
pip install .
```

## Installing `bavapi` *Reference* classes

`bavapi` can generate some convenience reference classes which map Fount resource IDs with a more readable name, both for ease of use and for autocompletion in IDEs.

These classes are automatically generated by a console command that becomes available once `bavapi` is installed.

:::note Protected access
A Fount API token is required to generate reference files. See the [Authentication](authentication.md) section for more information and instructions for using `.env` files.
:::

As of `v0.4` the following reference classes will be generated in a folder named `bavapi_refs`:

- `Audiences`: encodes audience IDs
- `Countries`: encodes country IDs

To generate these reference classes, run the following command:

```prompt
bavapi-gen-refs --all
```

A sample reference class would look like this:

```py
class Audiences(Enum):
    ALL_ADULTS = 27  # Random ID
    ...
```

And could be used to have better visibility when filtering API responses:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="ref" label="Using Reference class" default>

```py title="Explicit audience filter"
fountapi.brandscape_data(country_code="US", year=2022, audiences=Audiences.ALL_ADULTS)
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="no-ref" label="Not using Reference class">

```py title="Audience filter not human-readable"
fountapi.brandscape_data(country_code="US", year=2022, audiences=27)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::caution
Don't commit reference classes to public repositories. Add `bavapi_refs/` to your `.gitignore` file.
:::

To update existing reference classes with the latest data, re-run `bavapi-gen-refs --all` on your terminal.
