---
slug: python-sdk-1-0
title: BAV Python SDK reaches v1.0!
authors: nachomaiz
---

:tada: We are excited to announce the release of the `v1.0` (stable) version of the BAV Python SDK!

You can update to the latest version of the BAV Python SDK by running the following command:

```shell
pip install --update wpp-bavapi
```

The latest version of the SDK includes new supported endpoints, new features and many bug fixes.

After the `v1.0` release, we will now enter a more maintenance-focused stage of development.

However, the package will continue to be updated with bug and security fixes, as well as with support for changes and additions to the BAV API.

:::tip Issues and feature requests
If you ever encounter any bugs while using the SDK, or if you have any suggestions/requests for new features, we encourage you to open a new issue on [GitHub](https://github.com/wppbav/bavapi-sdk-python/issues/new/choose).
:::

Here are some highlights since our last announcement:

- :tada: Full support for many more [endpoints](../docs/2.x/developer-tools/python/endpoints), and more [versatility](../docs/2.x/developer-tools/python/basic-usage#using-query-objects) for performing endpoint requests.
- :rocket: `bavapi` requests should now be faster and more reliable, thanks to various improvements in the requests and parsing logic.
- :sparkles: New [error handling](../docs/2.x/developer-tools/python/basic-usage#error-handling) behavior. If a page fails to download, `bavapi` will now warn the user about the missing pages instead of raising an exception. You can change this behavior with the `on_errors` argument.
- :notebook: Improved [SDK documentation](../docs/2.x/developer-tools/python) and updated with the latest features and functionality.
- :bug: Fixed various issues with validation, data parsing and pagination.

Check out the releases page on [GitHub](https://github.com/wppbav/bavapi-sdk-python/releases) for a detailed changelog.
