---
sidebar_label: Reference Classes
---

# Reference Classes

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

The SDK can generate some convenience reference classes which map Fount resource IDs with a more readable name, both
for ease of use and for autocompletion in IDEs.

These classes are automatically generated by a console command that becomes available once `bavapi` is installed.

:::note Protected Access
A Fount API token is required to generate reference files. See
the [Authentication](developer-tools/python/authentication.md) section for more information and
instructions for using `.env` files within your Python project.
:::

As of `v1.1` the following reference classes will be generated in a folder named `bavapi_refs`:

- `Audiences`: encodes audience IDs
- `Countries`: encodes country IDs

A sample reference class would look like this:

```py
class Audiences(Enum):
    ALL_ADULTS = 27  # Random ID
    ...
```

And could be used to have better visibility when filtering API responses:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="ref" label="Using Reference class" default>

```py title="Explicit audience filter"
bavapi.brandscape_data(country_code="US", year=2022, audiences=Audiences.ALL_ADULTS)
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="no-ref" label="Not using Reference class">

```py title="Audience filter not human-readable"
bavapi.brandscape_data(country_code="US", year=2022, audiences=27)
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::caution Ignore reference classes on public repositories
Please take care not to commit reference classes to public repositories. Add `bavapi_refs/` to your `.gitignore` file.
:::

To generate these reference classes, there are two options for authenticating your requests:

- Specify the Fount API token via the `-t`/`--token` argument
- Use a `.env` file to store your Fount API token and install `python-dotenv` to read the file into your environment.
  See the [Authentication](authentication.md#recommended-way-to-manage-api-keys) section for more info.

Run the following command:

<Tabs>
  <TabItem value="with-env" label="With a `.env` file" default>

```prompt
bavapi-gen-refs --all
```

  </TabItem>
  <TabItem value="without-env" label="Using the `-t`/`--token` argument">

```prompt
bavapi-gen-refs -t "TOKEN" --all
```

  </TabItem>
</Tabs>

Alternatively, you can specify the name of the reference class to generate:

```prompt
bavapi-gen-refs --name audiences
```

To update existing reference classes with the latest data, re-run `bavapi-gen-refs --all` on your terminal.

:::caution Keep the reference classes up to date
The audiences and markets change over time. It is recommended to update your reference classes regularly. Typically
audiences and markets are never deleted, however we can't guarantee that it will never happen.
:::
